1.
Agriculture Ministry to pay compensation for damaged crops
Written by Staff Writer    09 Aug, 2023 | 6:32 AM

Share:     
COLOMBO (News 1st); The Ministry of Agriculture said it reached a decision to provide compensation to farmers whose crops were damaged due to the dry weather conditions.

Agriculture Secretary Gunadasa Samarasinghe said compensation will be provided from Rs.40,000 per acre.

He added that the relevant estimates are being obtained at present.

Samarasinghe said preparations are in place to pay insurance for six types of crops including paddy, maize, potatoes, big onions and soybeans.

The Agriculture Secretary said those whose crops were destroyed can apply for the insurance.





2.
Agricultural land circle rates in Delhi hiked to up to Rs 5 crore/acre
Agricultural land circle rates in Delhi hiked to up to Rs 5 crore/acre


The new circle rate for farmland in South and New Delhi will be Rs 5 crore an acre. It will be Rs 3 crore an acre in North and South West districts, and Rs 2 crore an acre in Central Delhi. Since 2008, the agricultural land circle rate in Delhi had been Rs 53 lakh an acre. The circle rate is the per-acre value at which a land-owning farmer can get compensation when selling his plot to the government.

Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal gave his nod to the proposal on Monday. The proposal will be forwarded to the lieutenant governor for approval.

Agricultural land is often acquired in Delhi for infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges, universities and hospitals. In cases where farmers do not receive good rates for their land through government projects, the situation often escalates to legal disputes, leading to protracted court battles and project delays, the Delhi government said in a release. “Yet, when farmers sold their land, they received compensation based on the outdated circle rate," revenue minister Atishi said.

“Previously, agricultural land across Delhi had uniform circle rates. However, they have now been delineated by district. Moreover, they have been categorised into green belt, urbanised villages and rural villages,” the government release said.

Kejriwal said: “The farmers of Delhi have been demanding for a long time that the rates of their agricultural land be increased. A few years ago, we increased the rate, but due to some reasons, they could not be implemented at that time. Today, I am happy to inform all farmers of Delhi that your demand has been fulfilled.”

Atishi said: “This is poised to bring substantial benefits to farmers.”

Delhi Panchayat Sangh pramukh Than Singh Yadav said: “It... would have been better if the rates would have been same for all zones fixed at Rs 5 crore. This might lead to some sections opposing that they are not getting the rates like South Delhi villages, creating a deadlock.”

Bhupinder Bazad, president of the master plan committee of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said the new rates are more than the market rates in some areas. “This can lead to a situation where farmers might find it difficult to sell their land as the new rates are higher than market rates in places such as outer Delhi. Of late, there are not many projects happening.”

Pending policies such as land pooling should be implemented. Then every sector would benefit, he said.

A DDA official said it was too early to comment on the impact of the increase in the rates on the land pooling policy. “Basically, the policy includes development of the agricultural land through a developer, after forming a consortium. There is no sale and purchase process involved. We have to figure out the impact of increase in rates on this policy," the official said.






3.
In the letter, which the minister, officials and Congress leaders termed fake, agriculture department officials from Mandya have accused the minister of demanding Rs 6-8 lakh for postings.
BENGALURU: A fake letter sent to Raj Bhavan triggered a demand for Agriculture Minister N Chaluvarayaswamy’s resignation. The Governor’s office forwarded the letter to the government, with a direction to take appropriate action.

In the letter, which the minister, officials and Congress leaders termed fake, agriculture department officials from Mandya have accused the minister of demanding Rs 6-8 lakh for postings. The letter demanded measures to put an end to corrupt practices.While the opposition BJP and AAP demanded the minister’s resignation, Congress legislators demanded action against those behind the fake letter.

“The only ‘TRANSPARENCY’ in Siddaramaiah’s government is ‘Bid’ for Transfers! Higher the Bid, Highest Post! It’s Just Cash and Carry! Corruption Levels in Transfers have Reached the Max Limits. 8 Assistant Directors for Agriculture have written to Governor against Minister Chaluvarayaswamy that they are being demanded Rs 6-8 Lakhs for Posting. They have also told them don’t have another way other than suicide,” former Union minister and BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal stated.

The AAP state unit demanded that Chief Minister Siddaramaiah sack the minister and appealed to the Lokayukta to register a suo motu case against him. The party even warned of an agitation if action was not taken.

Born Between 1970-1995? Get `2Cr Term Insurance from Max Life
Born Between 1970-1995? Get `2Cr Term Insurance from Max Life
Ad
Free Term Insurance Calculator
Chaluvarayaswamy rubbished the allegations, saying he has not even met the assistant directors of the department. He said he was told a fake letter was being circulated to the media. “I have asked the department secretary to investigate. Let the report come out, then I will react. People are targeting me day and night, I am not concerned,” he said. Ashok VS, joint director of the agriculture department, Mandya, said there is no pressure on them to collect any money. “I believe it is a fake letter,” the officer said. He has written to SP, Mandya, seeking a probe into attempts to defame the department. 

Meanwhile, Congress legislators have written to the SP, demanding action against those who wrote the letter. They termed it a conspiracy against the minister by those who are desperate, as the Congress government is implementing its guarantee schemes. “A criminal case should be registered against the person behind the letter,” they demanded.

Earlier, Congress MLA BR Patil had claimed that a fake letter using his letterhead was circulated to create a rift in the party. Meanwhile, Siddaramaiah said it has been revealed that the letter circulating online is a fake. The Joint Director of Mandya Agriculture Department clarified that there are no such officers in the district. However, we will review the matter and investigate, if necessary. Leaders of BJP are you the creator of such a fake letter spreading slander against the government? Or your “brother”?, he questioned.



4.
The Climate Change Commission (CCC) on Tuesday said educating Filipinos about urban agriculture could promote self-sufficiency amid inflation, marked by rising prices of basic commodities.

In a news release, CCC Commissioner Albert dela Cruz Sr. said it is important to conduct programs that develop food security through activities helping the public understand the significance of urban agriculture and self-sufficiency.

“Educating Filipinos about urban agriculture could somehow help assuage the hardships being experienced by most in the face of skyrocketing prices of agricultural products, particularly rice and vegetables common on the dinner table of majority of households,” Dela Cruz said.

Dela Cruz has been conducting forums on food security in partnership with the Department of Agriculture’s Bureau of Plant Industry as well as the Department of Social Welfare and Development and Cooperative Development Authority in different communities across the country in the recent months.

Analysts predicted an increase in upside risks connected to inflation.

Earlier, China Banking Corporation chief economist Domini Velasquez noted that despite inflation dropping in the past six months, there is still the possibility of a reversal as base effects could lead to August inflation matching or even topping the 4.7 percent recorded last month.

The downward trend was reportedly due to lower prices of housing, utility and fuel, food and alcoholic beverages and transport prices.

However, rice prices were increasing both in domestic and international markets, particularly following India’s decision to ban exports of non-basmati white rice, Velasquez said.

She added that emerging El Niño conditions and recent strong typhoons could also drive up domestic food prices.

Bank of the Philippine Islands senior economist Emilio Neri pointed out that importation is usually the immediate solution to rising consumer prices when there is a shortage of prime commodities supply, but this might become difficult if other countries are also affected by El Niño.

Some 200 residents from Barangay Calantas in Florida Blanca, Pampanga attended one of the forums, expressing their support for the government’s efforts in providing valuable information regarding the importance of climate action in response to the impacts of climate change and global warming, he said. (PNA)




5.
Now he is telling all his peers who will listen that they need to go out on a limb and try agriculture.

"My youth, dip a toe in agriculture, just you toe, [don't] put the whole foot. Once you dip you toe, the whole foot will follow. And if you don't know how to start, try 4-H," said Smythe.

"They have community clubs, school clubs, colleges and more, there are many ways to get involved. Just put a toe, after that everything will just fall in line, trust me. I did that and look where I am now," added Smythe.

He made the appeal during an interview with the Jamaica Observer from the 4-H booth at the 69th staging of the Denbigh Agricultural and Industrial Food Show. Smythe proudly spoke about the products he has developed.

"The teabag, soap and compost are all made organically from the locally sourced aloe vera plant. The aim was to do my part in combating climate change while being part of the 'Grow smart, eat smart' initiative," he explained.

According to Smythe, the soap is good for acne scars, blemishes and hyperpigmentation.

by TaboolaPromoted Links
You May Like
First steps towards a career in Data Science
Intellipaat
"There are a lot of benefits to this plant that I didn't know about until I started doing my research. For instance, if you have a cut and put some aloe gel on it, it starts healing within two days — which is a shorter time than regular medicine would take. It also fights bacteria and infection. The organic tea bag is blended with ginger to take away the bitter taste and it's recommended that it be sweetened with honey if you desire a sweetener," the teenager said authoritatively.

"During my research, I found out that as much benefits aloe vera has for the human body, it has the same benefits for plants. Just the skin gives added potassium and nutrients to the plant; it gives it a real boost. I also found that mixing it with chicken manure makes excellent compost and within a couple weeks you will see major differences in your plants," Smythe noted.

All three of his products have been tested and are safe for use.

He told the Observer that his school club encouraged him to enter the 4-H Champion Boy competition.

"They have this culture where they push you to do your best. Once you have an idea, the initiative and the drive, they take you and help you to make it a reality and I love that very much about my school, they nurture the young minds and encourage them to be their best," Smythe said.

"Now as a result of my ideas that came to life I am now 4-H Champion Boy and I am enjoying it so far. I really must big up Tedroy Gordon, my parish manager who has made this process so easy," he added.

Smythe said he has set aside 50 per cent of his winnings to fund his business and he is saving the other half to finance his education as he plans to study veterinary sciences or dentistry.

"I am really appreciative and thankful to 4-H for giving me this opportunity and a start. I will be sure to share my experience with others to let them know that 4-H did this for me," said Smythe.




